## [88.8193.36-1] - 2023-05-25

### Added

- Added ruleset.2da entry TURN_RESISTANCE_AFFECTS_PCS which allows Turn Resistance Increase/Decrease effects and item properties to affect PCs. Defaults to off.
- Added GetHasFeat parameter bIgnoreUses to allow checking for a creatures feat being known, even if currently used up.
- New HDR-bloom postprocessing effect. Accumalates overlapping effects more naturally and makes intense colors bleed into the surrounding pixels.
- Implemented use of OpenGL renderbuffers and framebuffer targets. Allows new types of postprocessing effects and along with various optimizations.
- Added AudioStream group of VM functions to support custom music playback synchronised between players: StartAudioStream(), StopAudioStream(), SetAudioStreamPaused(), SetAudioStreamVolume(), SeekAudioStream()
- Added Debug UI panel to view Sound system details.
- Added a set of console commands (`perfstats*`) to get performance data. Also available in Debug UI.
- NUI: Added window title text coloring.
- NUI: Added `image_region` property for image button widgets.
- Added game setting for VSync.

### Changed

- Temporary sqlite databases (Module, Object) are now entirely in-memory (`:memory:`).
- Changed FloatingText VM functions to allow suppression of the automatic chat message.
- Changed popup information over creature, item and placeable objects (from mouseover/holding TAB continually) so they will update dynamically due to damage/healing done, name changes, portrait changes, 35 bubble overrides and faction changes.
- Changed "Error:" messages in client log to clarify they are related to the sound subsystem.
- SSAO now runs at half resolution but with additional smoothing. Generally improves visual output while significantly reducing the performance cost.
- PLT-on-GPU generation now uses custom offscreen framebuffer target, making the output texture size no longer limited to screen resolution.
- The game now allows logins from private network addresses (LAN only) even if the masterserver is currently unreachable.
- GetEffectType now has a parameter to retrieve the effect type of some effects which previously had no EFFECT_TYPE_ constant.

### Removed

- Removed legacy code for reading pre-EE encrypted premium modules (All premium modules shipped with EE are in default MOD format and not affected by this change).
- All rules-related internal checks on expansion pack availability have been removed from the game client and server.

### Fixed

- Fixed a crash related to models with no or corrupt faces.
- Fixed an issue where special attacks that missed still caused damage to target's defensive effects.
- Fixed GetName description in nwscript.nss.
- Fixed issue where Entangle and other effects stopping movement sometimes left dexterity on 3.
- Fixed Effect Icons so they no longer get removed from the top bar if there are icons from permanent effects still in effect.
- Fixed stat gains that affect skill points being validated correctly at levelup (#245).
- Fixed an issue where bad GFF data could cause a crash on area load.
- Fixed not being able to cast automatic silent spells if predecessor feats were missing.
- Fixed a very rare potential crash when handling inventory items.
- Fixed a rare crash on game shutdown if music was still playing.
- Fixed buffer stutter when resuming music playback.
- Fixed a crash in decoding mp3 files.
- Charsheet now correctly shows attack bonuses for vs. racial type, alignment attacks (#480).
- Fixed some visual effects (like visibility) not properly updating when updated or reattached.
- Fixed custom two-handed/offhand weapon strength modifiers not showing correctly on the character sheet.
- MemorizesSpells 0 with SpellbookRestricted 0 now will allow access to all spells in a spellbook like a Cleric, with Sorcerer-like per-day casting limits.

### Security

- Updated bundled OpenSSL to 1.1.1t.

### Performance Improvements

- Optimized instruction decoding in the nwscript VM.
- Optimized instruction counting in the nwscript VM.
- Optimized how strings are pushed and popped on the nwscript VM stack.
- Optimized how `string` and `json` constants work in the nwscript VM.
- Optimized how object updates are calculated by the server.
- Optimized internal quaternion math.
- Reduced some perfomance overhead related to visual transforms.
- In singleplayer, if struggling to hit 60fps, some server logic will yield to favor rendering instead.
- Low level optimizations to how shadow edges are built.
